# Quick Start

## Prequisites

Speedy has only two prequisites:

 * a Java Development Kit (JDK) for JavaSE > 1.6,
   tested for the [Oracle JDK][oraclejdk] for JavaSE 7 and 8, [OpenJDK][openjdk] for JavaSE 6 and 7
 * [Apache Maven][maven] Version 3 or higher
 
If you haven't already, please install them according to their respective documentation.

## Create the project structure

You have two ways to get Speedy up and running as quickly as possible: maven or git.

### Using maven
You can create a brand new Speedy project by calling

    mvn archetype:generate -DarchetypeGroupId=com.github.mwmahlberg.speedy \ 
    -DarchetypeArtifactId=speedy-archetype -DarchetypeVersion=0.1.2-SNAPSHOT \ 
    -DgroupId=org.example.webapp -DartifactId=ExampleApp -Dversion=0.0.1-SNAPSHOT \ 
    -DinteractiveMode=false

Using the speedy-archetype is the preferred way if you want to use the quickstart as the base of your project.

### Using git
As an alternative way of getting started quickly, you can check out the source code of
the [introduction](introduction.html) by doing 

    git clone --branch quickstart --depth 1 https://github.com/mwmahlberg/speedy-introduction.git ExampleApp

Obtaining the sources this way is mainly for convenience if you want to have a quick look how Speedy works, since the code already contains a git history which you would not want in your project.

### The project structure

After the command finished, the following files and directories are created

    ExampleApp/
    ├── README.md
    ├── pom.xml
    └── src
        └── main
            └── java
                └── org
                    └── example
                        └── product
                            └── ExampleApp
                                ├── App.java
                                ├── config
                                │   └── AppConfig.java
                                └── controller
                                    └── Index.java



## Inspect the autogenerated controller

Let's first have a look at `Index.java`:

    package org.example.webapp.controller;

    import javax.ws.rs.GET;
    import javax.ws.rs.Path;

    @Path("/")
    public class Index {

      @GET
      public String sayHello() {
        return "Hello, Speedyworld!";
      }
      
    }

All controllers in Speedy are simple [POJOs][wikipojo] with some annotations.

The first annotation in this class is `@Path`. It tells Speedy which path is handled by the methods in the class. In this case, the controller handles `/`, the root of your web application.

The next annotation is `@GET`.  It causes the method `sayHello()` to be executed when the path is called with the [HTTP request method GET][httpget]. When the method gets executed, it returns a [String][jlstring]. Speedy passes that strings unprocessed.

So when the root of your web application is called, we can expect `"Hello, Speedyworld!"` to be shown in the browser.

Now, let us

## Run the server

First, we need to compile our project and create an executable JAR which contains all dependencies:

    cd ExampleApp
    mvn clean package

Maven will create `ExampleApp-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar` in the `target` directory. Now, we can run our app with

    java -jar target/ExampleApp-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar

When the server has fired up, you can open http://localhost:8080/ in your browser and get a nice greeting!

> For your convenience, there is a shortcut added. You can package and run the app in one step by issuing
>
>    mvn clean package exec:exec

[oraclejdk]: http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/overview/index.html
[openjdk]: http://openjdk.java.net
[maven]: http://maven.apache.org
[httpget]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypertext_Transfer_Protocol#Request_methods
[wikipojo]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plain_Old_Java_Object
[jlstring]: http://docs.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/api/java/lang/String.html